they saw what happened it's been in the
papers on the news and all over the
forums here to explain exactly what went
wrong on Saturday night is the BBC's
control of entertainment production John
Beasley we're not clapping because it's
a serious matter and you're a grown-up
it is very serious and actually just
reminded of how serious it is seeing
that great VT back of the events of the
weekend and what happened two couples
tied at the top of the leaderboard the
judges leaderboard there were three
couples left in obviously as a result of
that normally the public vote can save
one of the couples we discovered that
actually the couple place at the bottom
of the judges leaderboard could not be
saved so decision was taken a tough
decision was taken to say this isn't
right we'll stop it what kind of mayhem
ensued when you realize that that
happened I mean it must have just been
because what you were doing I suppose
was promising the public that they could
save their favorite but in essence they
couldn't that's right and that's why
they say tough decisions were taken at
the time and of course we went into the
program thinking okay how do we resolve
this how do we be honest and transparent
with the audience there was clear
signposting actually in the show about
what the situation was and we did what
we possibly could to resolve it and we
said three will go through to the final
as you saw on that VT now shortly now
they're all very happy but there are
people on the forum who aren't I have to
share that with you strictly Suzy I
don't think that's her real name
says I've read the official statement on
the BBC website but I can't help but
think something weird went on with the
BBC on Saturday night there is a feeling
that there was a fix or there's some
sort of underlying thing nobody really
can put their finger on it but it
doesn't feel solid and clear it's great
to be here to be absolutely category
really clear to say there was no fix
there was nothing underhand actually
there is a set of content contingencies
for the programme as you can imagine for
a very technically demanding difficult
live show as it is on Saturday and as it
was and in this particular case every
contingency Under the Sun did not
include the one contingency we needed
about a tie at the top of the judges
leader I know cuz everything else you
know every your you prepare for
everything so many breaks there
somebody can't tell what I'm see the
votes cast cuz lots of people spent a
lot of their money yes
trying to save somebody what happens
those votes well we've said already that
the votes cast will be rolled through to
this Saturday's final and that's really
positive and that's great
although I don't want to rain on your
parade no go ahead no and and as a
result of that but you can rein away
look those votes will count and that's
really important they have been
registered on Saturday and they will
roll forward what's important to say as
well is that if somebody is really
unhappy about that and they feel very
strongly that they want to have a refund
from their voting last Saturday then we
will refund that call cost okay so your
give money back we will for anybody that
is unhappy with their vote rolling fraud
but all the votes will roll forward to
this Saturday all right let me tell you
another so that details will be on the
website about that tomorrow as well okay
thank you blew in from somewhere on the
forum says rumor has it that there are
internal discussions going on at the BBC
about not having a final mix a say if
there isn't the final I've been here for
the last eight months talking about the
final I personally come to I Allison
said to light your hair and you have
everything you would have every reason
to and there probably be a long queue
you'd have to form an orderly queue
there will be a final on Saturday and I
can talk about it in a minute
so okay so explain to people who were
just going ah what what's gonna happen
on Saturday night
okay well look a lot of work has been
going in yesterday and today in terms of
actually what do we do about situation
we find ourselves in as unacceptable as
the situation was it was the right
decision not to carry on on Saturday
because the circumstances so what we've
decided to do is this in headline the
final will be in two parts obviously
people know that all three dancers will
dance again the audience know that and
also as I've just said all scorers from
Saturday last Saturday will be carried
over and that it that's the judges and
the audience's so you're going to be but
can't reveal them now and in fact I
don't know that but you will be
transparent about who scored what on
Saturday yeah we will be disclosing for
the first time ever yeah in the interest
of transparency with our audience which
is absolutely
paramount the leaderboard total from
last Saturday
so that's judges and viewer votes and
marks resulting from those votes the
marks will be displayed at the beginning
of Saturday's show okay and and that's
obviously in the in the interest no I
understand that but somebody will start
off the final with an advantage they
were yeah I imagine however small
exactly yeah yeah
which seems fair and right and proper
because that's carrying over what
happened last Saturday okay and from
that position on we're then on with
dances and competition and and it will
resolve at the end of part one or the
beginning of part two with an
elimination so we will go from three to
two but not with a dance-off I not with
a doe but with the amalgamation they'll
do their favorite ballroom the favorite
Latin yeah and then those votes combined
with the phone vote and the judges
comments or the judges scores somebody
will knit yeah I work and then
ultimately when we get to the second
part we will have a head-to-head and
it's fewer votes on account for the
Strictly Come Dancing champion okay all
right
John it won't happen again will it I
mean I've been told lots of the forum so
please tell us it'll never happen again
but it well it's really really important
to reassure people will not happen again
Saturday's this final on Saturday will
be independently verified in terms of
what's going to happen as will the
format points and we'll be reviewing
everything that's happened as a result
of last weekend with regards to the
future on this show and especially when
we get down to anything like three
competitors near the end of the series
we should also just let people know that
they started the second show in the
final the true final between the two
competitors the scores everything will
be start afresh weren't it's correct and
I don't go through a freestyle and a
Viennese Waltz yeah I like the fact that
you pointed at me there we go
yeah in a nice way John thank you for
coming in I imagine you have had an
extraordinary day